It's Welcome back.
And in this lesson we're going to add our clickable buttons.
So let's start by creating a div and I'm going to give this div an ID for see buttons and then within
that div we want and deposit all of our colors.
So we want to make this as dynamic as possible.
So we want red green blue and yellow to simply be able to be built within see buttons.
So I say I have to do that.
And next I want to have another active here and I'm going to give this one an ID of guess.
So this is going to be whatever the user has guessed the output to be that this is what the user is
going to be able to see as their guess.
So add in all of the gas elements in here as well and we'll add those dynamically with Javascript.
So now we need to build out see buttons dynamically and we have got a number of places where we can
build this out.
So maybe the first way.
The first part to build because we've actually got our array sitting under start.
So this is actually the place where we need to build those.
So we know that we've got we're looping through four items here.
So we're not looping through all the values in the array.
So unfortunately we need to create another loop in order to accommodate this.
So let's set up a second loop here and this loop is the one where we're actually going to build out
our buttons.
And so for this one we know that we've got this element here.
See buttons.
And this is where we're we want to append our brand new elements or brand new age to melt into.
So what we can do we've got a number of different options and this one should now actually be looping
for the length of the colors so that we have all of those buttons available to us.
So let's add those in and set up another variable in order to hold it.
So I just do h t m l and from here we're going to just append h to M L and then afterwards we're going
to add h tim L into the C buttons element.
So we need to build out our h to Mel.
And let's set those up as divs we'll give them a class so that we can pick up the class.
So the class will simply be whatever value is within the array.
So let me add those in.
So this is going to be color array and whatever the index the current index value is for x.
So we'll add those ones in and then do the double code.
So that's a single that's a first starting out with a double quote and then a single and then then a
single court to break back into the string and then a double quote because we need this an r h t m l
formatting.
So setting up that class and next let's do the same thing where we're going to grab this value and just
simply put it in there so that the user can actually also read those values.
So we know that we need to grab see buttons so we can do document.
And let's get element by ID.
And this one is called See buttons that's lowercase c uppercase buttons.
And now let's add in our inner h t m l so we can do Page 2 male.
So let's go and try this out.
So refresh it.
And now we build out all of our elements.
And the one thing that we notice that we get this undefined up here.
So in order to remove that let's set a value for each mental.
That's because we don't have a value and we're just simply appending to it.
So we're concatenating into it.
So the next thing that we need to do is we need to set up some styling for these because they're not
really looking that great.
And we need to add in some styling for those.
So there is something that we can do as well so we can add in the style.
And these are all background colors.
So let's go ahead and do background color and we're just going to add the background colors.
And within this type of format and then close that off go back and refreshed.
And now when we hit start.
So now we've got the background colors so we have to do go back into hairstyling and do a little bit
of styling for see buttons and we know that these are all divs that are directly under seat buttons.
So let's add some styling to these divs and let's set them up to be.
Well give them a set with so little with can be 100 picks and we'll display them so display
and we're going to display them inline block
also give them a height.
So 50 picks for height text align so line the text center
and add in a border.
So one pick solid block border it's there we go.
So now let's refresh it and see what it looks like now.
So now we've got a really nice kind of area where we can click and this is all fully dynamic.
So now we've given the user the ability to see these buttons but we haven't made them clickable.
So now what we need to do is add the on click event because these buttons they're not actually buttons
yet.
They're just a bunch of divs with colors in the background colors all nice and be presented.
So we have several different ways that we can do this.
And because we've gone this far with building out as HD M-L I get to simply add it as an on click attribute.
But of course you could have done it another way as well.
And that's creating the div element.
Adding the class to it adding the background color to it and then adding the on click event listener
to it.
So that was another option.
But for now let's just stay on click and when it gets clicked then what we want to do is we want to
fire off to a function.
So this is going to be where the user is actually going to submit their guess.
So I'm going to just create a function called old gas that's going to be the guess that's going to be
passed through.
And I also want to pass through a value into this guess and we don't actually have to pass an argument
because we can't pick up either from the class name or from the inner h him all the color that the user
has selected.
So we don't actually have to worry about any of that.
And we can go ahead and create that function all guess.
So what I want to do now pause the video and create all guess and then output into the message area.
The color that the user clicked.
So that's the challenge.
Try that and see the solution coming up.
So we know we need to pick up the color that the user is guessing.
And now we've got these on click events that are going to old gas.
So we've got a number of different ways that we can pick up that information so we can do this and we
can get class name we can get in or h t m l.
So let's do class names so that we've only set up we've set up that one class name and of course if
you add more class names then this way is going to breaking you could divert back to the inner text.
But for now let's grab this.
Class theme.
So we want to update that message area.
So a number of different options.
What I usually like to do is because I'm probably going to be calling on it more than once.
So let's let's just set that up as a global variable and message and then we can grab it with an output
there.
And now go back into the class name and in our text and we're going to equal it to the class name.
So now whenever the button gets clicked then what should happen we should see the color that was selected
into the class.
So let's refresh hit start and now when we click it we're actually getting undefined.
So there is a problem there.
And now we need to figure out what happened.
So we see that we're not actually picking up the class name.
And let's look into this function and see what's gone wrong.
So we're trying to call out to this and we're not actually able to pick up this properly within the
Old guess function.
So the other default and the one that is always going to work is that target so default and divert back
to event target.
And this time we're looking at that object.
So whatever triggered this function to be initiated and that's the that that we're going to listen for.
So we know that clicking was the last event that triggered it and that's how we got to that function.
So we know that event target is more of our fail safe way to pick up and we can then grab that proper
element and then we can grab the class name.
So basically now we know what the user is trying to guess.
And now we can actually push it into our guessing array.
So we've picked up that value and let's set up a variable and let's call it g.
For the users.
Guess so first thing that we want to do is push it into the array.
So let's push G into the users array.
So now we've built the users and we've got their guess.
So the next thing that we need to do is we need to show the users I guess some way so we can do it in
a way where we can just simply put the letters or the words and then have them output there but we want
to have it a little bit more dynamic and user friendly so we saw that we can push it into the array
easily and then we can also do a check to see if the array lengths are the same.
And then at that point we know that we can tell if the user is correct or not.
And then we can do something with that.
So the one thing that we need to do so that we can add that in first and we can check if array length
is equal to the array one length.
And if it is then we know that the user's done therefore it guesses and we need to check to see if while
the game is going to be over and we need to check to see if the user is correct.
So let's let's do that check.
And the way that we can do the check we're going to use the string method where we're going to take
our array and we're going to convert it into a string.
So we can convert it to a string using the two string method.
And then that way we can check to see if both arrays are going to be the same
so if if the array as a string if if they're the same then basically we know that at this point the
user guessed correctly.
So we can output you were and that should be an equal sign and that should actually be a message in
our text to enter text and we're going to write out to the user that you were correct
and we'll put a happy face there.
And if it's not it's so if they're not equal and we've come to the end of the game then we can write
out you are not correct.
So you were
wrong.
And we can also output the guesses you your guess and let's put the value of the array there at that
point.
So let's concatenate array one
and actually that should be array to array 2 is the user's guess and correct order was.
And then we can have the players guess or the this is the actual rate combination.
So now let's let's save this and go back and we'll quickly try this out.
So basically we can put in the four guesses and we say we can see you are wrong and this should be actually
enraged you know.
So let's go back refreshed one more time and now we see that I can guess and I can see your guess red
green blue yellow.
Correct order was yellow blue green blue.
So there we go.
So let's go in the line break so this is more readable and add that in on that side of the court.
So now we've got our condition that ends the array.
And the only thing that we need to do is we need to display to the user.
There are guesses and I also want to make their selections removable as well.
So go ahead and add that into all guess and I'll show you the solution coming up.